---
layout: post
title: "Year in Review 2020"
date: 2021-01-18
categories: review
---

I wanted to take a moment to review some key projects I worked on in 2020 as I plan out 
what to do in 2021. Many of these projects have detailed blog posts on this site.
These apps (and more) can be found at my [App Hub][app-hub].
They are ordered by what I find the most to least interesting.

#1: [Order in the Court][order] [(Twitter @OrderlnTheCourt)][order-tw]

The largest project I worked on in 2020 was the ridiculous improv storytelling courtroom game Order in the Court. 
Years back, this was a game I invented with a few friends and some blank index cards. 
I attempted to turn it into a web-based game years back but never completed the project.
Throughout 2020, as I migrated and deleted old incomplete projects, I decided to restart this from scratch. 
This new version worked better than expected, especially in the pandemic since it worked well with friends over Zoom.
For a few months, I actively playtested the game and even grew a small audience who played the game without my prompting.
This is a project that works but still needs work (and promotion). I hope to continue this in 2021.
This was my first attempt at any multiplayer game. I hope to branch out to other similar projects after this one.

#2: [The Quest Bot][qb] [(Twitter @thequestbot)][qb-tw]

This was the last (and largest) Twitter Bot I made in 2020. The Quest Bot creates randomized heroes and sends them on 
randomized quests until they eventually die, at which point it creates a new hero. This project was very exciting 
for me because it was a form of emergent storytelling, meaning essentially the project itself would create stories
without my help. At first, it took the form of a 0-player game (it played itself without allowing interaction) but I have recently
introduced some ways for anyone to interact by helping or hurting the hero on their journey. I plan to keep adding 
small features (and plenty of content) to this project, eventually reusing the pattern for a new storytelling bot using
what I have learned from this one.

#3: [The Clue Bot][cb] [(Twitter @thecluebot)][cb-tw]

The Clue Bot was my second bot. It tells murder mystery stories in a cycle. Each story is essentially the same, but the 
bot randomizes the victim, suspects, weapons, places, clues, and other messages. The breakthrough here was having a bot
that has a state, and thus a history, and thus the ability to tell a somewhat logical progressive story. This is probably 
the least interesting bot to watch on its own, but it was the most fun to make.

#4: [Stories from Another Universe (Twitter @storiesuniverse)][stories]

Stories from Another Universe was my first Twitter bot. I had toyed around with the Twitter API before (for instance, 
Order in the Court tweets when a game finishes) but this was the first project that entirely tweeted on its own. This
and the other bots I have made since use a CRON job to tweet on a schedule. 

This is by far the simplest bot. It takes a well-known piece of media (a book, movie, video game, quote, etc) and replaces
one or two words randomly, creating a story "from another universe". I had fun with this project, creating different 
substitution methods. These methods include random adjective and noun replacement, rhymes, synonyms, and more. This 
bot is very hit or miss, but it is always exciting when a bot that has no idea what its doing comes up with a decent 
parody title.  

#5: [My itch.io Games][itch]

This summer I created a few games on itch.io. The largest of these, Survive Maine, was created for a game jam.
None of these games are particularly spectacular (though Survive Maine is fun for a good 10/15 minutes) but I 
want to collaborate with others and create a more full-feeling game in 2021.

#6: [FiftyFour Blocks][fiftyfour]

FiftyFour Blocks was the last project of the year. It is the working version of an incomplete project I 
started years back. Instead of migrating that old project, I decided to take a couple days and start from scratch to 
complete the project. It needs more content and a few more features, but it works as a companion for Jenga (namely, 
drunk Jenga). 

#7: [Adam on the Internet][aoti] [(Twitter @adam_on_the_net)][aoti-tw]

After many other attempts at professional sites, the most recent callananconcepts.club failing because corporate firewalls block .club domains,
I finally landed on adamontheinternet.com. This site is the face of any future professional endeavor I take up. It 
isn't much on its own but its good to have an anchor on the web.

#8: [Chit Chat][chat]

Chit Chat was one of my smaller projects. This is a website that simply produces conversation starters. The concept
came from "chit chat" cards I found in a thrift store in college.

#9: [My App Hub][app-hub]

I needed one place to connect all my apps, so I created my App Hub. This allows me to keep a list of all my projects together.
I can feature some and archive others. Since I do a lot of small weekend experiments, it is good to have a public record of everything I'm working on.
It also allows me to have some universal pages such as "donate" so that I can link from different apps to one spot rather than rebuilding
a page in every app. The "Featured" apps from here are also used on adamontheinternet.com.

#10: My Core Data Service

This service runs almost every user-facing app I built this year. 
It uses Express, NodeJS, MongoDB, and other key libraries.
The app has authentication that I share between 
my projects that keeps things simple for me and allows me to create new projects quickly. I have one core service instead 
of many smaller services partly because this allows me to utilize the free version of Heroku. 
In the future, it would be better to have one auth service with many smaller services that use the auth service for security. 

[app-hub]: https://adam-on-the-internet.github.io/app-hub

[order]: https://order-in-the-court-app.herokuapp.com/
[order-tw]: https://twitter.com/OrderlnTheCourt

[aoti]: http://www.adamontheinternet.com/
[aoti-tw]: https://twitter.com/adam_on_the_net

[cb]: https://adam-on-the-internet.github.io/the-clue-bot
[cb-tw]: https://twitter.com/thecluebot

[qb]: https://adam-on-the-internet.github.io/the-quest-bot-ui
[qb-tw]: https://twitter.com/thequestbot

[stories]: https://twitter.com/StoriesUniverse

[itch]: https://fakefanadam.itch.io/

[chat]: https://adam-on-the-internet.github.io/chit-chat

[fiftyfour]: https://adam-on-the-internet.github.io/fiftyfour-blocks
